Author: Charles Jones
Subject: Proposal Project
File: Logs

010923
I proposed the project idea on the discussion board:
"Proposal: Store for an Online Game.

The company would be for a sci-fi dungeon crawler themed video game. The shop
would be a way for players to buy in-game content with real world money on the
company's website. The players can purchase in-game money, special items, and
various subscriptions. The customer would have to enter their name and email
for the database side, a shopping cart would be possible for the web application,
information about the items would be listed on the page, invoices would be sent
for individual transactions as well as recurring invoices for subscriptions."


011123
Started to develop the HTML and CSS documents for the project.

I created a graphic to use as the banner. The banner is positioned at the top of
every page. 

I had trouble figuring out how to center the footer at the bottom of the web page.
I had to use the following CSS:
	text-align: center;
	line-height: 30px;
	clear: both;
    position: relative;
    height: 30px;
    margin-top: -30px;


011223
I created the HTML pages for the 'Shop', 'Subscription', and 'Suggestion Box'. 

I will need to make a checkout page at some point and possibly a page to go back
and print an invoice if the customer did not print it the first time. Once a
customer clicks 'Checkout' on the checkout page, the invoice should be printed.

The subscription page should be a simple page that refreshes after clicking a 'Next'
button and add the next information needed to process the subscription. I last 
increment of the subscription page should print an invoice with the subscription
purchased.

The suggestion box will have a few text boxes that will send an email to a designated
email to setup later.


011623
I created a localhost web-server for my application. I was reading inforamtion on
the Apache Tomcat web site for a few days prior to try and understand what I needed
to do. I ended up watching a YouTube video that walked me through downloads and
terminal commands to setup Tomcat on my MacBook. This caused my to switch from Sublime
to Eclipse IDE; one I have also familiar with. I initially downloaded the latest v10 
of Tomcat, but when I tried to setup the server on Eclipse, Eclipse did not have an
option to setup a Dynamic Web Project with Apache Tomcat v10, but only v9 and before.

The transfer to Eclipse lead me to copy my files into an Eclipse Workspace folder
to continue with the project.

I was able to setup the web server and servlet for the project.

I had to rename the .html files to .jsp in order for them to update correctly. The
black background didn't show up at first on my Chrome browser; it was just white. So,
I had to disable the High Contrast setting.

I additionally added some different text in the Title and Body tag of each web page to give
a visual indication which page I am looking at on a web browser and that my hyperlinks to
each page from the Nav bar work as intended.

Start up web server: /library/tomcat/bin/startup.sh
	NOTE: The web server can be started by choosing the localhost server in the console
	window and click the green start button on the right side of the console window.
View in browser: localhost:8080/LostOutThere/index/jsp
Shutdown web server: /library/tomcat/bin/shutdown.sh


013023
I tried to setup myPHPAdmin. I will need to brush up on my PHP and SQL. I created the
database and a couple tables for when I'm ready to connect the database to my jsp files.
I've been spending a lot of time reviewing how to write JS and PHP. 

The localhost is still working. I figured out that I can start and stop the server out of
Ecplipse instead of having to go into the terminal every time.


020423
I developed some of the market web application. I created drop downs that have content and 
a button to add to the cart inside the drop downs. I used code that I found on W3Schools
website and modified it to work for my market place. 

I looked through an old textbook on how to create buttons in HTML and then I had to search
online how to create an action with the buttons. I found that there are two ways to create
buttons in HTML/JS. I was able to add a few functions to the shop.jsp so that I could make
sure that I understood the script. I think I'll later change the mechanics of the funcitons
that I've already created to add things to a database and print the invoices.

The longest part of todays code was figuring out how to float three elements side-by-side
and them not look a mess. Figured it out. It was easier than I made it out to be at first.

I need to go back and add some notes to my code before I sign off today.


020923
I found out that I connected my application directly to Apache Tomcat for no reason. I was
supposed to download MAMP and connect to the Apache server through MAMP. That makes now, 
because I was trying to connect the SQL database to my web application and didn't udnerstand
how they connected. 

I will have to figure out how to connect the database to my web application next. I have the
shop pretty much complete asthetically. I changed the layout from trying to float div's to 
styling tables. When I used div's the image, title, and button floated to different heights
and I could not find a way to center each container so they were all in a straight line.


040323
I have not kept notes in a while. A lot has changed. I have created a JS sheet with functions
that change the interface. I have created a SQL connection to PHPMyAdmin. I can now add and
remove data from the cart_table in the lot_db. There have been a lot of differen thought
processes throughout the project. A lot of code I found online has built a part of the web
application that has later changed, or been modified, to suit a new need for further development.
I have started puting PHP queues in my JS functions to operate the SQL queries at the same time
that they appear on the user interface.

I will soon start to put carts into invoices. I want to try storing data from the cart_table into
the invoice_db. Starting the checkout interface. I will probably do away with the suggestions 
page unless I have time to do something at the end. I would like the checkout/invoice page to
have a different header than the rest of the application; something more simplistic that could
be printed from screen or transfered to a pdf.

04172023
I have done a lot of database integration recently. I have been setting up the code to create a
database on a system that a database is not yet created. My inventory items will be deleted. I
think I have found a way to develop the invoice table. I have now created a customer table that
will be combined with the cart table to fill in the information on the invoice table. I will use
the information on the invoice table to form the invoice. Can I reference data in other tables from
one specific table? Would that be a bunch of foreign keys? Could I do a customer table with reference
to the cart table? Do I need to implement a schema to do something like that? Are schema's possible
in PHPMyAdmin?

I have managed to use my JS buttons to inact code that adds and drops items to the cart table on
PHPMyAdmin. I still need a way to update my quantity in my database using the JS number input. I was
able to find the node that depicts the title. I now have to find a way to select the correct row
and increment the quantity by one with the counter.

04182023
I removed quantity from the website. I could not figure out way to adjust the quantity with the input
counter without rewriting a good portion of the website with php to manipulate much of the frontend. 
I like the way it turned out still. This will make the database manipulation a bit simpler as well. 

I was also able to figure out how to align everything on the page center regardless of the screensize.
I was searching for that answer for so long and it just kept escaping me. The answer was display: flex, 
flex-wrap: wrap, justify-content: center; that took far too long to figure out.

The remainder of the project should be database and displaying an invoice. I need to figure out if I
can pull information from another table using the foreign key or something of that nature by referencing
like items on different tables. Maybe I will need to Select and create a new table on the invoice page.

04272023
It is time to submit the web application. I can get the result requested in the initial description; add
items to the cart, add to database, and return an invoice. I can see so many flaws in my code that need
to be provisioned. There are not enough information checks. I think some of my JS code should have been
strictly PHP. It is not quite where I would like it to be for a final product.